
this guided
Project.
n the previous task, we learned how to reduce the number 
of data, 
merge columns, replace values, change data types and finally
 how to use statistical and standard functions
.in this task, we will further manipulate our data
 by learning how to insert new
 index column, append two or more queries 
with each other and sort and clean the dataset.
We will close that first.
Now we have an excel file that has 4 sheets, 

Desktop/Modeling”. We want to add all the data in the 4 sheets 
in one data model in the power BI desktop.
 We are going to use the shaping tools of power
 BI Desktop. 
Power BI lets us take this data and work with it
 without disturbing
 this original data set here in Excel file.
First we will open power BI desktop and then excel
excek
And the task four after we have a connection the data we want
to use is center.
east, center, west and west2,  then click transform data . On the left 
side we have all the 4 queries and each of them has its
own applied steps.
We are going to do the same steps for the 4 queries.
The first step, we will add the region column, 
the last column of this data.
 We will click on it and move it
to the right till the end of our columns. 
just like that.
We will do the same for the 3 other queries 
No, we have to take all of this data and put them together
into 
One large table and one long query that includes all the
four regions we're going to start by duplicating the center
data, we can begin with any data but we choose it because it
 is a larger one that has more data.
 We will right click on it. Then click duplicate. 
We will change its name to regions.
 We can change it in two ways.
 First one is right click and choose rename and
 the second and the easiest way. is to change it
from here.
Enter. Now we are going to append the data. On the home tab, we find
 combine icon, click on it and then click append queries.
 Then we will choose two table and from the down list. we
will choose.
Table east  When we dragg down our data  We find that
the East region is added after the central region we will do
 the same to add the other two queries. Click combine
, append queries, but this time, we will choose
 the two or three tables and then choose west
 and west2. And click ok. 
 We find that we have one big query that has all data 
This table can give us the ability to do our report and our 
visualization according to and based on the regions. Let’s 
now sort our data to
 add an index column.  
We will sort the column rep. click on this arrow 
and choose sort ascending.
 Now we want to add a key column and index column 
to our data.
We're going to click  add column tab.
 Click on the arrow next to the index column
 and choose from 1 to begin count
 from 1 not from 0.
 We find it at the end of our data. 
We can drag it to be the first column. Or click right click
on it and choose.
move then to the beginning.
Here it is.
Let’s change the type of cost column in the west 2 to text 
here we change it.
To text. transform and choose text.
Then we will append it again one more time.
To our regions.
Query. We find the column is changed from decimal
 number to any.
if that.
If it's type is any, we have to change the data.
Type of the same column before appending the queries.
Please take care of this, and the last thing we have
to do is clean our data by removing the null values 
before creating the report or do some visualizations or dashboards.
 We will click on each column and choose remove empty. 
as we see in this column the two records that have empty 
cells are removed successfully. 
Congratulations.
 you have completed task four of this guided project. 
In the this task, we learned how to further manipulate our data
 by inserting a new index column, appending two or more
 queries with each other, sorting and cleaning our dataset.
 In the next and final task, we will learn how to combine data 
using union, intersect, and except and add results 
in a new table.