Yeah. Hello welcome to this project of power bi I.
Development crash course my name is um it.
No Gary and I will be your instructor for this project now.
A basic prerequisite for this project is that you should have
a valid Power bi I account now.
How can you get that?
Just open your chrome browser or any browser for that matter?
Let's give it a second for it to open.
Okay so now you can enter at dot power V I dot com, absolute
power grid dot com.
Enter this address and here you'll find a way to create
an account.
If you already have an account you can just click on sign in.
If you don't have an account just click on try free.
There is an other option too create an account.
Let me such that here you go.
You have a sign up option as well over here so click on sign
up and you know you will get an option to create your free
account.
Click on try Power bi I for free it's a free account.
There's no charge for creating a your power bi account
and just follow the instructions and you're all set.
You know just follow the instructions.
You're all set.
The only requirement here is that you should have a valid
work account like a work imitators, not a gmail hotmail.
Yahoo that email address will not work.
So you should have your official work account through which
you could log into Power beer and through which you
could create an accountant power here, basically.
All right so that's a very prerequisite of having a Power bi
account for this particular project after that.
Now before we start, before we really start with with our
development, let's first quickly give me a walkthrough.
Let me give you a walkthrough.
Okay so um on your workspace I have already pre installed
Power bear desktop.
It's a free to download desktop version of Power bi I free
version of Power were basically which is used for creating
reports.
So this is on the desktop.
You'll find a power bi desktop shortcut.
So we'll use this in the next particular sessions.
But just an overview for that.
And for our Power BI reports, we are going to use some data.
The source data and the source data is going to be uh
some flat file.
So if you go to a c.
Trying there's a folder.
Colours Power bi I double click on it and these are the
three files that we are going to do.
These are three data sources for us in our Power bi report.
Okay. You could of course create a Power bi report using
any source project supports.
Like it can it can connect to databases, you can connect
to cloud databases etcetera.
But in our project we're going to use these flat fights.
Uh so we'll study this flat files in detail.
What are the contents in detail?
But this was just a quick walk through of um what we're going
to do. Okay, so let's get started.
So let's open power where the stock for us.
This is double click on this icon on your desktop for their
desktop.
It's got a second.
All right.
So after a few seconds, the part where the storm has opened
now, this is just a screen which you can get rid of first.
So if you see on the far right hand side corner, just follow
my cursor and you'll see a small cross icon.
It's very, you know, visit it's not visible very clearly.
For some reason, the screen size or something resolution,
it's not fitting well, but just go to the far right side
of this yellow box over here and then just click on it
and then you'll get rid of this box.
Here you go.
You see I got rid of that uh that notification dialog box
or whether it was.
So this is our power where the stock so uh this is uh options,
various options which will of course study in the latest
sessions.
This is your can was this is the editor basically where
you drag and drop your fields, your charts or visuals
and create nice looking, stunning reports.
This is your visual asian.
All the visual asian that is available to you.
This is the filters that you could apply on your report
and this is the fields which is available for you to create
a report right now.
It's empty because we haven't created any field.
Right? So the first step of creating any power bi report is
to connect to your datasets, connecting to your data source
is the first step.
And remember our data source source is those three files.
Three flat files which is present on sea trail.
Right? So for that on uh if you if you're following makers
that you see get data over here at the top under home, just
click on this drop down.
This will give you all the possible connectors available
in power here.
Basically if your data sources sitting in a school sorrow
database, if it's sitting on somewhere over the web somewhere
in Excel uh and it it has a whole bunch of options.
Trust me, click on more, I clicked on more and it will it
will just show us all the possible options are connect us
that power their pro isis.
Okay, so this is it.
So you have different databases that it supports, oracle.
Sybase, Carita, ASap, all the different Azure data sources
and so on.
So it has a whole bunch of systems that power bi I
could correct to and get the data.
Okay. In our case in our case we want to connect to our local
system.
Right? And you want to connect us to our flat files, which is
nothing but a CSP file.
So I go to my file section and just click on text CSP
and click on Canada.
Okay, now it is asking me uh like I just have to browse
to the location where my files are present.
So I'll go to see tribe.
I'll go to Power bi.
I and I'll select all these files at once.
Actually wanted it.
I'm not once.
It it records along with his left one.
So what are the time product category?
Subcategory dot C. S.
We I think it's important.
Okay. No, uh see it's showing us a preview of the data
in that file.
I'll click on Lord.
So that lower product category subcategory it's still doing
it. You see this dialog box over here this window, let
it finish.
Let's give it a few seconds.
It's a small file so it shouldn't take long actually.
Okay, so that is done.
So now again click on get data, click on more and uh we have
to click on text CSP until there's a shortcut older.
I shouldn't click the order.
So click on text C S V U C and click on connect.
And I'll click on customer dot C. S. V.
Open. And I'll say Lord, this is just a preview of my data
which is President Mike Osama dot C S V. Anglican Lord.
And let's get a few seconds while it is loading the customer
fight. All right.
It's already done.
So again I click on get data this time.
There is short cut away.
Like I use this one as well.
Text class.
Yes, we and the last Phyllis transactions taxis.
We'll see in detail what water in this file.
What is the data?
It is a content in this file.
So right now let's just load this file I think on Lord.
And ah it's Lori.
All right.
So we have loaded this tree file.
You see now in the field section you automatically serious
three file customer product categories of category
and transactions.
Right. So basically we have successfully loaded all our
source data in power beer, right?
You could also see your data or your in your model view
on the left side.
If you see this is the model, you just get rid of this um
This particular stuff so that you have a better view.
So this is uh just reduce the Zuma bed.
Okay so groups let me zoom.
Oh okay so this is your customer file.
This is a product category subcategory there's a transaction
right now all these three files, the data has been imported
in power here.
Right. This has been important in power here.
So data is sitting in power here now but if you see these
three files are not related to each other, the three tables
are not related to each other in the next session we'll see
how do you relate how do you create relationship?
But this is how you get the data from your source system
into power bi.
A. Okay.
All right this is it about this session.
I'll see you in the next particular session where we'll see
how do you create relationships and a few other properties
for this particular data which we have imported in power BI.
Alright.
Stay tuned, seeing the next task.