All right, welcome back.
So now that we have connected to our source data source,
which is nothing but a three flat files and also imported
data in power P. I.
The next step is to understand our data.
What is our data?
Let's understand the data and also understand
the relationship between these three different files.
Okay, let's try to do that.
So for that I have opened the three files customer dot C. S.
We product category subcategory dot csun transactions dot C.
C. You could also open it undersea dry power B. I.
And the three felt ready.
You know the path.
So let's see the customer that CSC.
So basically what the data over here is that uh we have
a list of customers who have done some transactions
at a retail outlet retail store.
So this is a retail dataset.
The dataset of some customers purchasing some products
for a particular price with some quantity and everything.
They're doing some transactions.
So are very usual retail outlet transactions is something
that we have in our data set.
So for that the first file that we have, that is the first
data that we have is the customer dot C. S.
We this is a master data for all the customers.
So a unique set of records for all the customers that we have
in our system.
Okay. So you have customary gender, city and customer name.
Okay. No it is a customer ID is unique.
Customer area is going to be unique.
And we have a lot of records, A lot of customers.
Okay. And uh so the next file will have is a product category
dot subcategory.
This is again a master file, a master data set for all
the products that we have in our retail store.
Okay. Um so we have a product category.
We have a product subcategory as well, subcategory code as
well. And these are all the possible product categories
of categories that we currently have in our system.
Okay. And the 3rd file is a transaction style.
Now this file contains the actual transactions
with a customer has performed in your retail store.
Okay? So you have transaction idea which is again unique.
You have customary which is again a reference
from the customer.
That CSE file.
Okay then you have the transaction date.
You have the product subcategory cord.
You have the product category cord.
These core.
Both the courts are again reference to the product categories
of category dot seriously file.
Okay. You have the quantity of the rate at which
they have purchased the tax total amount.
And the store type just store type is just just a medium
privilege.
They purchased a customer purchased a particular product.
Okay. It can be e shop, It can be a flagship store.
It could be anything.
Okay, so these are the three files that we have.
All right?
So now that we have imported a data in power beer, there's
our power beer.
Now it is a time to create relationship between these
three file because these three are all isolated.
A standalone data that we have in power here.
Let's try to create relationship.
Now we know that customer ready um is present in transactions
file. Uh There's a product category subcategory cord which is
also present in the transactions file.
Right? So what we're going to do is that create relationships.
So there are multiple ways to do it.
Uh The simplest way is you see this customer ready to select
this customary and drag it over here, select it and drag it.
Or maybe selective over here this way.
And uh it will create a relationship.
You see it will create.
It has beautiful create a relationship that's double click
on this relationship now.
And these are transactions fight data.
You have customer ready?
You have customer, you have a customer ready now.
Cardinality is again, it will undermine the cardinality based
on the other language.
To transit reminded many to one.
Basically this transactions has many records for one customer
ready, whereas all your customer ready is unique, right?
Which is why it's many to one.
Cross filter direction is single.
Always keep single.
There is an option to keep both.
I won't get a lot of details into what is both.
But to summarize, let's just just understand that 99.99%
of the time you'll keep it single.
Okay, just keep it single and click on.
OK. All right.
Uh These are you create.
So these are we created relationship between customer
and transactions.
Now, let's see how do you create relationship between product
category subcategory and transactions?
Remember?
Product category subcategory and customers are not directly
related to each other.
Right. Because based on the data that we have uh there is
no common column through which there is a link,
but they are linked by other transactions.
Right? So let's try to create a relationship
between transactions and product category subcategory Now,
if you absorb we have product category court and subcategory
cord in product category subcategory fi.
Uh Sorry, the table Now there is no single column which
will make through which we could identify a unique record
in this particular stable.
Right. So what we have to do is that we have to create a new
calculated column, a new calculated column which will be
unique in the stable, which will uniquely identify a single
record.
And similarly will create the same column in the transaction.
Stable as well.
Just so that we could create relationship because creating
relationships on multiple columns in power bi i is not very
straightforward, like using this bizarre, you cannot create
multiple active relationship.
There is a way to do it of course uh you know, but there is
no straightforward way of doing it.
So just to keeping it simple, what we are doing it is
that we're just applying a hack.
There's just a simple hack that we're that we're doing it
for that, go to this report.
We over here and under product categories subcategories
if you whore or these three dots, you'll find more options.
Click on it, click on new column.
So now we are seeing what is dax, We are going to write a tax
Okay attacks script dax function basically.
So what we're doing is we're adding a new calculated column.
So if you see when you click the new kilometer at this
over here, just name this column as product at sub card I. D.
Okay so there's a combination of product categories
of category because uh combination of product category
subcategory will always be unique based on our data.
So what the syntax is that click on equal to sign and just
we have to concur in it.
Right? So there is some predefined functions available index.
So for that just enter con cat and you'll be prompted
with this, click on this concurred in it.
Okay when he conquered he made.
Okay. And uh this opening bracket.
The first text is going to be product category.
So just enter product category.
Now you're seeing all the fields which matches product
category.
We are interested in this field.
Product category court.
Okay. Product category cord coma.
And again I'll say proud.
Subcategory double think on that rod.
Subcategory court.
And I will enter out closing bracket if you see the closing
bracket.
Uh That indicates that the con cabinet function has ended.
And I'll just click on enter.
If you click on enter it will create this new column
over here.
If you see it has created this product category.
Subcategory a small effects and indicate that it's
a calculated column.
Similarly, we are going to create this column in transactions
as well because we have product category subcategory
transaction stable as well.
So we'll click on new column and and I will again replace
the X. This way.
Broad add sub tired.
I agree.
Okay I will replace this.
And uh I will again right the same function concurrently made
with opening bracket of products.
Now, if you live in a byproduct you're you're seeing all
the fields only from transactions, right?
Because we're adding this column in transaction statement.
So product category, core electra chroma.
Again. Island.
P. R. O. D.
Broad. And it will just from 30 minutes I'll select product
subcategory cord and I will enter closing bracket and I
will enter, click on enter.
And it has created this column.
Product categories of category.
Okay, so we have created this buddhist columns.
Now in both tables.
Now let's go back to our relationship view over here
in the model section.
And now let's create relationships simple.
Let's select this field.
Dragon drop it uh towards this field in product categories
of category.
And it will automatically click create a relationship.
If you develop like this, let's check uh in product
categories of category we have this some proud catsup cat I.
D. This is also products of cat I. D.
The calculated field that we have created.
The relationship.
The cardinality is many to one.
That is correct because in product categories of category
this field is unique, which is why it's one.
And over there are many records with the same product, catsup
Cat I. D.
Which is why it's many of you cross filter direction is
single and I literally can't.
Okay, correct.
So we have now created relationship between our three data
sets that we have in our power bi I. Um you see we created
first written customer and transactions.
Then we created a relationship between category subcategory
and transactions as well.
Already.
Uh just to view all the relationship in a single place.
If you see there is this manage relationship, click on this
and you can see all the relationships in your data model.
This is a good way to review all the relationship, Okay?
And this looks good to me, so I'll close this.
All right.
This is it for this particular session.
Uh See you in the next session, where we'll see some more
functions of some more features about this particular report.
Thank you.