Welcome back now that we have successfully created
the different relationships in our data model.
Let's now explore the different different column level field
level properties that we can set, you know.
So for that let's go into this middle section which is
the data tap.
So you click on data type and over here you could see all all
the different uh tables that you have in your model.
We have customer product category, subcategory
and transactions right?
You also can see all the fields over here.
So there are a couple of options of multiple options to set
the properties.
For example, you can set a data type of it.
You can set the format, you can set category and so on.
So for that what you can do is I just select any column,
for example, select I selected discussed.
Um Ready now I can set this data type.
The options I have is a whole number, the serial number
of daytime etcetera.
I'll keep it default, whole numbers of power they will try
to understand based on the data that you have and it will try
to set the default data type and everything based on the data
that you have.
Okay, so I think for custom ready it's I will keep as is
summarizes is I'll keep it as don't summarize and everything
is same.
So the rest of the properties, I'll just check gender.
It's okay.
Mostly sometimes what happens is the integer column
can be set set as a character column.
So that's something important you need to set.
So the rest of the columns over here, I will probably keep it
the same.
Except I will go to product category subcategory chord.
Let's check that product category.
Uh Let's take the product category chord.
Let's see if it's whole number.
Yes it's whole number so rest otherwise I'll go
to transactions and if you see after uh like as a prefix
for each field there is some icons in customer and product
category subcategory.
There are no special icon so everything looks fine.
But over here if you see product category subcategory Sorry
the product category core in transaction has this submission
icon. That means that it is it is going to treat it is going
to sum up the value.
So what I'm going to do is that I'll go to this transaction
stable.
Okay. And uh under trans let's check the field
under transaction I. D.
Is whole number the customer I. D.
Is again whole number.
The summarization is don't summarize.
That's okay, transaction date this is important.
This is set the data type as a text but what we can do is
that we can set it as date because it's a date so we'll just
set it as date and I'll click on.
Ok so now this stranded is will be considered as date which
is what we want.
And then we have we have the product category cord.
The data type is fine the whole number.
But if you see the summarization is some which is why you see
this submission.
I can so and we don't want it because this is not a measure
is not like a amount or you know that sort of number
that we want to sum up.
Which is why we want to say don't summarize helpfully
Condoned summarize and as soon as I can condone summarize um
it should change this I concept change.
You see this icon, this icon has gone.
The separation icon has gone.
Okay uh The product category subcategory.
Let's check that.
It's don't summarize product subcategory chord.
Again it's summarize as a some so I'll click on it.
I'll say don't some fries.
Okay. The quantity again, you don't only some some
of the quantity.
Right? Or maybe you do in some cases.
So I'll keep it default.
The raid also.
I'll keep it default.
Uh and the story type is okay, taxes okay.
Total amount.
I'll keep it default transaction idea.
I've heard all the some of these are idea these are unique
column.
There's nothing to sum up.
Right? So some relation I'll select it.
I'll say don't summarize.
Okay, So this should go away.
Okay. And now if remember trended we had selected a date.
So what it has done is that it has created a date hierarchy
for us.
This is very useful.
So since it is a date column, so it has by before it created
a date hierarchy.
Your quarter month day based on the data water, we have this
can be useful for reporting if you want to report
on any yearly basis in the quarter data in the month data.
This can be used to.
Right? So this is what it has done and this is it has done
only because we have said the data type as did.
All right.
So this is about some of the properties uh some other
properties which we could say we can go to the model
and some other properties which you could say is that you
could hide a column.
For example in your reporting uh reporting you would usually
would not require this customer I. D.
Transaction idea or this product category cord because these
are all internal unique identifiers used in the back and data
which is used to create relationship.
So on the reporting side, on the business side this might not
be required in most of the case.
So what I'm going to do is that I'm going to hide this.
So I'll select this and if you see there is this icon uh oh
here, just click on it and this will hide it you see.
And this is just your word and it will say a message.
The field or table is hidden in the report to select to make
it visible, right?
So similarly, I'll go to cast idea over here and I'll click
on this icon and it is going to hide it.
The product catsup Cat.
I'd also I'm going to hide it.
The product category court.
Also I'm going to hide it and the product subcategory cord
Also, I'm going to hide it.
All right.
And uh from your in the product subcategory cord, I'm going
to hide it and products sub getting the idea, I'm going to
hide it.
I'll broad category subcategory code.
I'm going to headache so I'm just hidden all this field
because I don't really want it for reporting purpose right
now. Some of the properties is that you can go to these
properties window and here you consider description.
You can rename some fields whatever feels you want.
You can create separate folders as well you know inside our
particular table you can create multiple folders as well.
And uh some other basic property which we could set.
So these are some of the properties some very basic
properties which you would want to set for each fields um In
your particular power via a data modern.
Uh so that it will be easier for reporting purpose.
So if you if I go back to my report view I'll get rid of this
table which I added.
Uh Now if you see uh my your product category, subcategory
only has product category and subcategory transactions only
has this, well it doesn't have a product category or
subcategory core customer.
I. D. Doesn't have this I think transaction it is still there.
So maybe we could make it hidden as well.
You can do it from your as well.
You see over here this I can't even do it from your as well.
There are multiple ways multiple channels which you could do
it. So I made it hidden over here.
Right? So this is how you can hide the field.
This is how we have said the uh some of the properties
elected data type we said specially trended.
If you see branded you see the date hierarchy that it has
created year, quarter month.
You can just drag and drop this year and use this in your for
a reporting purpose.
All right.
Uh So now so in this session we have seen, how do you set two
different properties?
Um, uh, that's it for this session and stay tuned for the
next particular session that we're going to see some more
exciting stuff.
All right.
Bye bye.