Hello. Welcome back.
So now let's add some visual ation on our report because so
far we've seen all the back end configuration,
like connecting their data, importing it, creating
relationship, exploring different properties and so on.
Right? So let's create some report now.
So I'm just gonna explore randomly.
Just a few commonly used visual issue.
And how do you do it?
But feel free to explore more.
Alright, so okay, let me select something.
Let me select the product category.
Okay, the select this field.
You see checkboxes just keeps letting this field by the fall.
It is going to add at this uh table.
So if you put a category over here now let's let something
else as well.
It's like the city.
Let's select the product subcategory.
Let's select the year.
All right.
And also let's select the total amount.
All right, so let's expand this table a bit expanded.
It still is very small.
But what we could do is that select this icon focus more
and it will just focus.
It will just expand that particular budget.
Okay, so we have product category.
We have a city in which it was sold the products up
to a degree of course the year in which it was sold.
You can again sorted the way you want, ascending, descending
and a total amount for which it was okay.
And what you can do is that what I'll do is that I just uh
like if you go to this visualization expanded this.
These are all the fields for this particular visit.
So uh let's rear in this field product category and move
subcategory about.
So let's rearrange this.
Okay, sorry, it's product subcategory for the category.
Should be on the top.
Here you go.
Alright.
Some issue with memos.
So it's very easy to this.
Dragon drop this.
Um and I think the sequence.
Okay, so this is simple table which I have added.
Let's add some filter.
Now let's have some filter criteria.
For example, I'll click on this here because I want to filter,
pirate will add by default.
This particular table.
I'll just minimize this.
And what I'm doing is there at least drag and drop
this particular where?
Because I want all my filters on my right inside.
So now let's uh select this particular budget.
And then if you see visual asian here, the slaves eruption
just like this.
And this is going to select, convert it to a filter.
Okay, let's add some more filters.
For example, let's add city.
I'll select the city and okay, it's by default added up map.
But I want to filters while again select the slicer
and that's it.
You see it has converted it to a slicer.
A filter.
The City.
Well, again, Dragon drop it over here.
Again, it's very small right now because there are so many
things on the screen and the resolution, but you could
of course select any particular stuff and just focus on it.
So this just filter on this and you should be good.
Uh This is also you could do let's drag and drop and let's
rearrange this in a better way.
Okay. So you could still just expand this particular
one and still you have this focus more.
So click on this focus more and you'll see a better view
of it. Okay.
And that's it.
We have added it for the year part.
Also just expand this a bit and you see this focus more.
All right.
And this is a slicer bar to the slice and dice it.
So, from 2013 to 2014, for example, if you want to filter Or
2012-2014, right?
We can just slice and dice it.
And if you see Expand the stable, you'll get all the data
in the year.
You'll only see 12, and 20 14 according the product category
or City also has changed only two ways which is was selected.
Okay. For those of you are the filters.
You can also check it over here.
So I'm not yet.
Just let me again rearrange this.
All right.
So now let's add some charts.
For example, let's add a pie chart.
Okay, very popular one pie chart.
So let's see city wise revenue for example, I'll add city
and I will add the revenue.
So I've selected new york right now.
Right? So I'll dislike new york.
And this is obviously again, you hold over it and expand
and click on this focus more and you'll get to see details
like which city has, which revenue, this is what you see,
right? Um We have all the cities and of course you can
if you apply filter of here for example, let's say you apply
a filter, click on this focus mode.
Now if I select everything 2011-2014 it is going to affect
everything even this data as well as this video.
So these filters are applicable to everything all the widgets
that you have on your screen.
Okay? You see you change any of this and this pie chart also
changes.
So you scan select multiple cities.
This uh this hit on the control button and then and then
select you can select multiple entry filters over here.
Just press control and then just select from your mouse
multiple cities.
This is how you can select multiple cities over here.
And uh All right, let's rearing let's size it a bit.
Let's also add um Let's also add another thing as city.
And let's add it as a map.
Oh, it's already at it.
Actually, no, not not this let's have a different one.
What we could do is let's add a line chart.
So where is it individually?
Since like this line chart.
This is the line chart, lets dragon drop this a bit about so
that we get some more space for our line charge.
And let's select something.
For example, on the access.
Let's say you want your on the axis.
And let's say you want what what you were uh category.
And the value is totally a mom.
All right.
So if you expand this, you see these are all the categories,
you have bags and everything, but there isn't much data,
which is why you see this uh this we're looking a line chart
but let's rearrange it.
Let's see what we could do actually have just lectured city
over here one.
That's why if I dislike this now it's better.
So the select is and uh hit on this focus mode.
Now if you see these are the only categories, these are all
the categories that we have right boy bags, books, clothing,
and everything.
And these are on on the X axis.
You have the year, which is what you see over your access,
you have the year.
The legend is product category.
Which is this what we want to measure?
The value is a total amount which is automatically comes up
on the y axis.
Okay, so this is how you can create a simple line chart
as well.
And what you could do is that simply you can change as well
to something else.
Something different.
For example.
uh This one just like this stock area chart, you know,
with the same values, you could do that in most of the cases,
you could do it, you know, this is a different way of seeing
this, right?
So this is how we added some very basic simple uh simple
visualization on the report, We've seen how to add it.
Um Now if you just select this, but like anything,
if you select this, this visualization, if I select the table,
uh you have this visualization pane wherein you get to see
all these fields uh you have drilled through and everything
filters as well you have.
Now if you want to just filter on this particular
on this visual field to filter the select this feel basic
filtering Bangkok.
Remember this is not going to filter everything on the page.
Okay. Because when we selected this filter, any value
in this filter on the visual where my cursor is, It used
to apply this filter on all the visualization, all
the widgets on your page.
But when I select this particular budget like this table.
And then under filters, if you select a particular city
or waterfield filter, you select, it is only going to filter
on this visual.
You see filters on this visual.
So it is only going to filter on these visions.
But you can add a universal filter like filters on this page.
If you add a filter over here, this dragon drop this field
for example, this dragon drop this fields and it is going
to override all the filters that you already have over here.
Okay, so if you select anything store type, let's say e shop.
If you select this is going to override everything over here.
If you select Flagship store as well, you see some this data
is changing.
So this is like on all the visualizations of this page.
This is what it means filters on this page.
Right? And of course you have filters on all pages over here.
Because in park where you can create multiple pages,
like a single report can have multiple pages.
So you can apply a universal filter, which is as filters
on all pages.
This dragon drop, just the dragon drop, something like this.
This dragon drop, press and just apply field all male
customers if you want.
Okay, this dragon drop.
And you're good to go.
All right.
So this is how you create a simple report.
A simple visualization report um over here.
And uh that's it for this session and see you in the next.
Thank you.
Stay tuned.