Welcome to this guided project about “Get, Shape, Combine  
and Merge the datasets using Power
  BI” My name is Omnia, and I will be your instructor 
for this project. 
I’m a computer engineer and I’ve been analyzing data 
and representing data since early in my career. 
This project is for people who are interested in data 
analysis , data modelling and how we manipulate and clean
 the data using power BI.
 You don’t need to be a good programmer or data expert
 to take this project,
 we will begin from zero.
Microsoft Power BI is a suite of business intelligence (BI),
 reporting, and data visualization
 products and services for individuals and teams. 
Power BI stands out with streamlined publication and
 distribution capabilities, as well as integration 
with other Microsoft products and services. And a business
 analytics solution that lets you visualize
 your data and share insights across your organization, or 
embed them in your app or website.
” The solution comprises several products and services, and 
value and versatility comes from leveraging the individual elements, and
 taking advantage of how they work together. 
Many companies’ user power bi to, connect to data, Transform 
and model the data, create charts and graphs, create reports
 and dashboards that are collections of visuals and finally 
Share reports with others
 using the Power BI service.
 
In this project, we will learn how to the basics of power BI,
 how to use it. 
create a model and import data from different types of data 
sources.
 how to manipulate data: reduce the number of data, 
merge columns, replace values, 
change data types and finally use statistical and 
standard functions.
in addition to learning how to insert a new index column,
 append two or more queries with each other, sort and clean
 the dataset. 
And finally how to union, except and intersect  ,combine
 data of two tables and add results in a new table..
Let us now have a brief overview of the Rhyme platform. On the

 you see my cloud desktop.
 I am moving my cursor right now. On the left side,
 the big cloud desktop you see is yours. 
 This is a hands-on project. So, please watch what I am doing and 
follow my steps on your own cloud desktop.

 the cursor on top of my cloud desktop and click the Pause
 button. If I'm going too fast or too slow, you can increase or
 decrease the speed of the video by clicking the speed button 
below the Pause button.

I desktop.
 It opens automatically when you open your cloud desktop, 
but also, you find the icon here on the desktop. 
You can click on it, open the tool so we'll click on get
started and cancel.

We find the home menu, the view menu, the modeling and help
tabs. On the left side. We find 3 different views. 
 The first one is a report icon. 
We use it to create reports. 
The second icon here which looks like a table is the data
 view to view and get all our data.
 And the third is our model and relations.
Finally, at the right hand side, we have panes. A filter pane, a
 visualizations pane, and a fields pane.
 If you'd like to collapse those, you can, to
have more space on canvas for our report.
We will click on this icon just like that To import our data,
 we have to click on get data link here.
  We have a list of 
the most common data sources.
 If we need to see more sources, we click on this link 
“get data from another resource”. or more
We will get a list of many data sources. 
we can find excel and CSV files.
 we also have access to a SharePoint folder, or a PDF, XML, 
or JSON files. Databases, including SQL Server, 
Access, and an entire list of databases. 
Then we find the power platform tab which has connections to
 existing data flows, data sets, and the Common Data Service,
 that are used with PowerApps, PowerAutomate, and shared by
 Power BI. Azure tab, 
our cloud services as Azure SQL databases, and Azure SQL
 warehouses.
 Online services, which contain SharePoint, Dynamics,
 Azure appear here as well, Mailchimp, QuickBooks, and so on.
 And then finally, other. Anything you can't find anywhere else,
 look here. 
It will be here.
We also have the ability to connect using ODBC and
OLE DB, so we can connect to almost any data source here.
 Whenever we choose a data source, for example, Excel, and 
click Connect, 
whatever happens next is based on the type 
of data source that we connect to.
Those are the basics of the user interface for Power
BI Desktop.
Let me now show you how we create a table with dummy data.
We will click on modeling tab, new table.
Then we will remove this word and write calender =
calender("1-jan-2000", "31-dec-2050")
calender("1-jan-2000", "31-dec-2050")
calender("1-jan-2000", "31-dec-2050") and we will
Click enter. this expression will generate table named
calendar containing one column called date and having one and
having one row for every single date between first jan 
2000 and the last day of December 20 50.
Here it is.
Congratulations.
You have completed task one.
In this task, we learn the basics of our B I and how to get
data and select different types of data source in the next
in the next 
In the next task, we will learn how to get and import data
from different types of sources, how to create a model and
and save our data.