Hello and welcome back to task two of this guided project.
 In the previous task 
we learned the basics of power bi desktop.
 In this task we will learn to get and import data from 
different types of sources and how to save our data 
and the model.
In this task we need to create a model, 
we need to get some data and we are going to import excel 
file. this is a dummy data that is downloaded from a free site. 
website.
This dataset is the income of person per year in different
 countries. 
So we will click on get data, 
then excel, we will choose our file which is 
PC/Desktop/Modeling” “income per person”  click
on it, open
We will wait a few moments till the Navigator box appears 
 Note also that the load and transform data buttons are not yet 
enabled 
and the reason is, even though we are previewing this,
 we haven't selected anything yet. 
When we click the check box for table, note 
that the load and transform data buttons get fired up. 
So we So we are going to click them here and click
 load button, 
and it takes a moment, creating connections 
to model, loading a model, 
And at this point, we will wait.
and at this point, where is the
 data? 
This is a report view. 
So we have to click on data view to see our data. 
And here it is. 
 we can also save our work by clicking on file, then save as 
and here write 
any name to save that file. 
lets  write myfile. and click save. 
If we go to our desktop we will find the file there. 
 what if we want to close this file 
and that model? We will click on close icon. 
If we open it again,  by clicking this icon, we find
that we open a new file with new data model. Which means
 that if we click on data view, we don’t find the dataset.
we don’t find the dataset.
we don’t find the dataset.

 I'm going to show you how to connect to a comma-separated
 value, or csv file, another common data type.
 We will click on get data then this link, csv file and choose our
 file. and then we can change comma separated to any type
from here in this list.
But we will choose comma and click load
We will find our fields in the field pane
 so the data is loaded successfully.
 When we click on data view, we will find our model.
model

 so it should make sense that databases are common sources
 for the data we use in Power BI Desktop. 
So if we choose get data 
from another source and choose database, we have a list 
of databases. And unless you already know how to make 
a connection to a database. we select the database type 
that you want to connect to and click connect, and then open
 the advanced options, if there are any, 
If there are any to view all of the information that 
will be required for you to connect to this database. We
 will have a server name and many other fields to establish
 the connection. 
We can choose another type of databases which is googleBigQuery.
googleBigQuery.
 We find that we should have a user to sign in with it 
to connect.
Okay. Okay.
Last last thing.
We will learn to get data from websites.
  We are going to click on google chrome tab. 
We will find that there is a link.
We will click on it.
We will find that there is a table at the end of the page.  
We need to import that table in the power BI. 
So we're going to select and copy this URL, and then
 we're going to go to Power BI Desktop. Click on get data. Then 
in the search bar. we write web
. And click on it, then paste the URL.  then ok and
wait till the navigator box appears. 
We noticed that we want that table which is looks like here.
So we will click on it and load when the When the fields
appears here.
When the fields appear here we click on that to see
our table.
And here it is.
This is our model.
Congratulations.
We have completed task2. 
In this task we learned how to import data from different
 types of sources and how to save our data and model. 
In the next task, we will learn how to reduce the number of 
data, merge 
columns, replace values, change data types and finally 
use statistical and standard functions.