Hello and welcome back to task three of this guided project.
In the previous task we learned how to get and import data 
from different types of sources and how to save our data
 and model.
in this task, we will learn how to manipulate data such as 
reduce the number of data, merge columns, replace values,
 change data types and finally use statistical and standard functions
functions.
No, we will close that.
Now we will go to folder modeling on the desktop. 
Click on myfile.pbix 
 it will open in power 
bi desktop as we see now . 
Then we will click on transform data here. And transform data. we find that 
the power query editor is open and it looks like the excel 
sheet. We find on the right side the name of our table and all 
the changes we will do in this data set. here.
Let’s change the name of the table to ‘income’ by clicking
 on name and then write ‘income’ enter.
then okay. We find that the name is changed here.
 Now let’s learn how to decrease and reduce our
 data. Select 100 records only from this data. We
can reduce rows.
 can click on reduce rows then we find 2 options:
 keep rows, remove rows 
We will click on keep rows and keep top rows
and write 100 then okay
When we move down, we find that we have only 100 rows. 
And note that in applied steps, kept first added. to our
changes What if we want to undo this update?
We can click on this icon and click delete to get back all
 of the data that we had. We can also remove rows by clicking
 on reduce rows and remove rows.
 We can also remove duplicates and blank values from here too. 
We can also remove columns or keep columns from here. 
And we also can choose columns
 we want to keep and remove others.  We can apply
 all our changes from the button apply & change.
 If we click on it, we will save all the changes that 
we applied on the data in the query editor.
Let’s now filter
 our data to get all the countries except those whose first 
letter is v, y and z. 
We will click again on transform data transform data
and we will click on this icon.
and scroll down and remove the right trick from them. 
Then okay. We find the action has happened. 
When we hover the cursor 
here, we find this statement which tells us 
that we have 188 values with zero empty values and zero errors. 
when we hover on the column.
When we hover on column 4, we find that we have empty values,
 we will delete them
 when we click on the three dots and remove empties. 
Perfect.
We can also replace some values from a column. 
We can click on the specific column just like that.
and then on the top right side, we click on the replace values,
and then we write, we want to replace this number 482
111 like Okay, we find that it has changed.
We are going now to define the data type and change it 
to another.
When we click on a column, we find at the top of the right 
side here
 data type: text.
When we click on the first column, we find the data type is
text. When we click on the next one.
We find the data type is a whole number.
We can change it to text by clicking on this and choose text.
So when we click on it again, we will find it.
Change it to text.
We can undo the previous change in the applied steps to see
our what our data looks like before we meet that specific
change here Whole number After that, it is text Please note
that if you click on a column whose type is a whole number,
we find that there are There are some functions that
appears in the transform tab Here we find that there are
some functions that appear as statistics,  We can
we can sum of all the data in this column 
by clicking on the sum function and here is the output.
 This number is the summation of all values in this column.
We will remove it from here and the here we find
another type of function called standard.
such as add.   We can add a value of 10 to all the values
 in this column.
 We can do that by clicking on standard, add and write 10 
a clear.
We find that 1802 changes to 1812 and the last type is so
scientific , such as Power Square, root and so on.
The last thing we will learn in this task is how to merge two columns 
with each other in the Transform tab.
We will choose our columns and click on text columns, then
merge columns.
And we find that a merged column is added as we see
  and the change is applied in the applied steps.
Congratulations.
you have completed task three of this guided project. 
In  this task, we learned how to reduce the number of data, 
merge columns, replace values, change data types 
and finally use statistical and standard functions,
 in the next task, we will continue manipulating our data 
by  insert new index column, append two or more queries 
with each other, and sort and clean the dataset.