
this guided project.
In the previous task we learned how to further manipulate our data
 and insert new index columns, append two or more 
queries with each other, sort and clean the dataset.
 In this final task
 we will learn how to apply union, except and intersect ,
of two tables and add results in a new table.
First, we will close that and open new one.
 Let’s import the data from folder modeling on the 
desktop excel and choose Task five.
We have sheet one and sheet 2 We will load both.
We have in sheet 1 names and sheet two other names. 
 Now we will combine two tables together and append
 them in different ways like union, except, intersect and
see what are the differences. 
let's check it out. 
sometimes we want to combine tables and the power query is
the right choice.
we can use append or merge transformations, which we
 can use to combine
 data from a couple of tables together, 
however sometimes we need to do this index, 
for example, dax gives you the ability to combine these 
dynamically.
now the first way that you can combine these together 
in one table is using union. union will bring all the values 
and all the rows actually from the two tables. We will click 
on modeling tab, new table. We write, Union = Union (sheet 1, sheet 2) 
Union = Union (sheet 1, sheet 2) and enter. we find it
here.  Let’s drag and drop it 
and then click enter. here. We will click on it and click on 
format in the visualizations palette. 
Then move down and choose values. Change font size to
 50 pt. 
and then maximize the box 
by dragging this. here.
 Let’s drag sheet 1 
 and do the same for shet 2 
Toe Compare between them.
format values text size 50.
lets compare between them Now what we see here are the
names in table one or sheet one and the names in csheet two.
osama doesn't exist in sheet one, but it exists in sheet two.
We see that union removes the duplicates.
Okay, The second function is the Intersect function only
returns the rows that exist in both tables.
 All of those rows that exist in only one of the tables will
 be removed from the result set. This is how you can use
intersect.
let’s do the same steps,
Modeling new table and right intersect equal.
 new table and write intersect = 
intersect (sheet 1, sheet 2)
And here it is.
Who will click on that and we can click here toe, see the
results We see that all rows
We will see that this function brings the intersection
between two tables only which are Mustafa, Joe and Salma as
we see the index that  the syntax that INTERSECT and 
union are used are exactly the same.
The same rule applies on except as well.
For these three functions, we just need two input
parameters the two tables If you want all rows from table1
that don't exist in table two, we can write EXCEPT(Table1,Table2) . 
lets first close all of that 
And let's remove those from the report view and then, except
EXCEPT(Table1,Table2) . 
Let's click that here and we will click here to view better.
We find that we have all names that exist in table one and
not exist in table two.
note that we can get all rows that are existing in table two
only swap the function here.
EXCEPT(Table2,Table2) . 
Congratulations.
You have completed the final task in this project.
In this task, we learned how to combine data in different
ways and congratulations on finishing the project.
I hope you have enjoyed taking this project as much as 
I've enjoyed creating and teaching it. 
I have enjoyed creating and teaching it.
As you probably know.
You're learning doesn't stop here.
This project is for beginners.
In this project, we learned how to understand the basics of
power BI, 
how to use it. 
create a model and import data from different types 
of data sources. 
We also learned how to manipulate data: reduce the number
 of data, merge columns, replace values, 
change data types and finally use statistical and 
standard functions.
in addition to learning how to insert a new index column, 
append two or more queries with each other, sort and clean
 the dataset.
 And finally how to apply union, inset, and except of two 
tables.
and add results in a new table.
I Wish you all a good luck
 and bye-bye.