All right, welcome back my friend.
So now we have also created a sample report rate.
It's a simple report.
Nothing fancy about it.
But uh I just wanted to show you how you can create
this report and how you can drag into our fields and how you
can set filters and so on.
Right? But feel free to explore more.
It's quite self explanatory.
Um these are the filter.
These are the visual ation.
We have a bunch of options for visualization, feel free
to explore more of it.
Okay, I've discovered the basic of it.
All right.
So now that we have created a report but it is still on our
local right?
Because we're using a desktop version of Power BI desktop,
which is on the local workspace we have.
Right, But there is something called US Power Bs service,
which is a cloud version.
So what you have to do is that um go to your browser's enter
ab dot power bi i dot com.
Okay. And signing Now remember I assume you already have
a account.
So just sign into your account, I will sign into mine.
This is my account.
Okay click on next and I'm going to enter my passport.
Okay. So after you sign in this is how it will look.
This is your power bi I service now.
What is it used for?
Because uh imagine if you want to share the report
with multiple users, right?
If you are to share your report with multiple users, uh then
you can't do it using your local power bi desktop
because it's all local and part of the purpose.
And that purpose of power using power better stuff is
that it allows you to create.
Report.
It is a report development software, report development
application.
But if you have to share a report with multi multiple users,
how do you do it?
You have to publish a report to this particular workspace
of your husband or your log in.
You have your own workspace.
You have my workspace as well as you you can see multiple
workspaces of your organization.
Of course, you need proper license for a Power bi, a license
for it with a free life Power BI license, you cannot share it
with multiple users, but you can still publish it to your my
workspace.
My workspace is something that is like a sandbox environment,
that is something specific for you.
Nobody else can see any content within my workspace.
Right? So this is where you could publish your Power BI
report, which you have created with three license, you can
only publish it to my workspace.
But if you have paid license then you could create a new
workspace.
You can deploy like you can just just create a workspace.
Um you see it's saying a great of power be a pro because now
I do not have a pro license, it's a free license for me as
well. So you can create a workspace and then you can add
users to read workspace.
So basically you can give access to users that workspace.
So whatever reports you publish in that workspace,
those users who has access to that workspace will be able
to view that report.
Okay, as simple as that.
So that's the purpose of work space.
You can create as many workspaces you want, usually
in organization, you will find a finance workspace which is
for finance department HR workspace, a sales workspace which
is for sales department folks.
And then of course you allow, or you provide access
for finance people, you provide access only to the finance
workspace for salespeople, you provide access only
to the sales workspace and similarly for HR people,
you provide access only to the HR workspace.
This is how you segregate the access levels for different
users for different department because you don't want
to finance guy to see the A sales reporter.
Probably the HR report.
Right? So that's how you set the access levels of users
and of course you have report which is for finance
while publishing it, you can select the workspace and you
can publish it to that particular fund works with a finance
workspace or whatever users having access to the finance
books that will be able to see your report.
So this is how you share your report with multiple users
within your organization or within the department.
Okay, so now in our case, we are just going to deploy to my
book space and whatever you deploy to my art space, it is
just for you.
You cannot share it with any other users.
Okay. So Uh huh.
So enough of this power where service now what I'll do is
that I will go to a Power where does stop again over here
in power where does also even if you do not have a power we
account still you could create a report.
You could create reporting power where the stop.
You can do anything in power so you don't need to need
to power their license for power.
Where does stop?
Right? But when you want to publish it, you need a license.
Um Either it's a free license.
It's okay but you need a part of the account.
So click on the signing option.
So again enter the same username Frasler which have firepower
the account, click on continue.
Let's enter the password.
I'll enter my password.
Yeah. All right.
So I have successfully signed in.
If you see now over here, I can see my name.
I might not agree.
So, I've signed into my power via account and now what I
could do is that very simple.
Go to your home and go there should be an option to publish
over here.
Just click on this published and we want to say it.
Of course, yes, we want to save it.
And I just uh save it somewhere in the stop.
You can say it.
Anybody wants men I so I made up out of here.
Okay. And save it.
It is going to save our.
x five and select a destination.
Now, if you see it is only giving me an option of my
workspace because I haven't created any other workspace
or it is not giving me access or it is not showing me
any other workspace.
Right? So I'll just select this my workspace and selected
and it is publishing right now.
Let's hear the moment and it will publish it.
It should be quick.
All right.
So it has published.
I'll click unguarded Now let's go to our power be a workspace.
Let's go to my workspace.
And if you see uh let's elite is it come close If you see
it has published this ahmed part.
We just ignore this.
This other report.
This is what I had created earlier.
But amid part where there is the name of the power we file
right? Which we had saved.
Now if you see it has deployed two things.
One is the report.
One is the detention because every report consists of a data
set which is our back end data and the report which is
a front end data.
Right. Different and visualization.
So we are interested in this front end report but obviously
do not delete this data set.
This is also important uh and I'll click on this amid Barbara
and it should show us all the data.
You see I had created multiple pages but it was
blind the second page, third period blank.
Right. But I just showed you had created multiple pages.
So it's showing me all those multiple pages and I just
minimize this so that I get a better view, minimize this.
Okay? You see this is the exact same report, right?
I'll click on this.
This is my power bi desktop in my browser.
This is the exact same report which I'm seeing, right?
So this is how you publish a report.
Now. I could um you know, I could do a couple of options like
I could export that report in PowerPoint pdf or will be in
Excel as well.
I could some apply some filters as well just on the filters
on this page and everything.
I could also edit this report but I think I do not have
access to edit it.
Uh so that's okay.
But there is an option if you have power their parole license,
you can edit this report in this in this powered by service
on this browser as well.
You get most of the features which you have in power where
the stop on this power via service.
Okay. But you need a better license for that.
All right.
So that's it.
Uh we have successfully published our Power bi report to the
Power via service and this part way services, cloud based.
Right. This is um entirely cloud based service.
Uh We've seen, how do you publish this report to power were
service?
We've also seen what is powered via service.
And so I think that is the end of this particular project.
Um We've seen a very simple steps, a very simple way to
create a simple power bi.
Report all the basic steps that you would require.
Uh This is especially for bigness who have no experience with
power bi.
I and uh with very less amount of uh the time you could uh
see how can you create a power bi report?
So I hope you like this project.
I hope this was useful.
Um I hope this, I hope you explore more of power here because
there is a lot and a lot of more features in available in
power bi.
Um I hope you explore more.
Ah I hope you like this project.
All right, thank you so much.
Um and all of us.